Packer Post-Processor support UCloud import (#8261)
hashicorp/packer: website/source/docs/post-processors/ucloud-import.html.md

---
description: |
    The Packer UCloud Import post-processor takes the RAW, VHD, VMDK, or qcow2 artifact from various builders and imports it to UCloud customized image list for UHost Instance.
layout: docs
page_title: 'UCloud Import Post-Processors'
sidebar_current: 'docs-post-processors-ucloud-import'
---

# UCloud Import Post-Processor

Type: `ucloud-import`

 The Packer UCloud Import post-processor takes the RAW, VHD, VMDK, or qcow2 artifact from various builders and imports it to UCloud customized image list for UHost Instance.

> ~> **Note**  Some regions don't support image import. You may refer to [ucloud console](https://console.ucloud.cn/uhost/uimage) for detail. If you want to import to such regions, please import the image in `cn-bj2` at first, and then copying the image to the target region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~> **Note**  Some regions don't support image import. You may refer to [ucloud console](https://console.ucloud.cn/uhost/uimage) for more detail. If you want to import to unsupported regions, please import the image in `cn-bj2` first, and then copy the image to the target region.
```

## How Does it Work?

The import process operates by making a temporary copy of the RAW, VHD, VMDK, or qcow2 to an UFile bucket, and calling an import task in UHost on the RAW, VHD, VMDK, or qcow2 file. Once completed, an UCloud UHost Image is returned. The temporary RAW, VHD, VMDK, or qcow2 copy in UFile can be discarded after the import is complete.

## Configuration

There are some configuration options available for the post-processor. There
are two categories: required and optional parameters.

### Required:

-   `public_key` - (string) This is the UCloud public key. It must be provided, but it can also be sourced from the `UCLOUD_PUBLIC_KEY` environment variable.

-   `private_key` - (string) This is the UCloud private key. It must be provided, but it can also be sourced from the `UCLOUD_PRIVATE_KEY` environment variable.

> -   `project_id` - (string) This is the UCloud project id. It must be provided, but it can also be sourced from the `UCLOUD_PROJECT_ID` environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `project_id` - (string) This is the UCloud project id. It must be provided, but it can also be sourced from the `UCLOUD_PROJECT_ID` environment variable.
```

> -   `region` - (string) This is the UCloud region. It must be provided, but it can also be sourced from the `UCLOUD_REGION` environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `region` - (string) This is the UCloud region. It must be provided, but it can also be sourced from the `UCLOUD_REGION` environment variable.
```

> -   `image_name` - (string) The name of the user-defined image, which contains 1-63 characters and only support Chinese, English, numbers, '-_,.:[]'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `image_name` - (string) The name of the user-defined image, which contains 1-63 characters and only supports Chinese, English, numbers, '-_,.:[]'.
```

-   `ufile_bucket_name` (string) - The name of the UFile bucket where the RAW, VHD, VMDK, or qcow2 file will be copied to for import. This bucket must exist when the post-processor is run.

-   `image_os_type` (string) - Type of the OS. Possible values are: `CentOS`, `Ubuntu`, `Windows`, `RedHat`, `Debian`, `Other`. You may refer to [ucloud_api_docs](https://docs.ucloud.cn/api/uhost-api/import_custom_image) for detail.

-   `image_os_name` (string) - The name of OS. Such as: `CentOS 7.2 64位`, set `Other` When `image_os_type` is `Other`. You may refer to [ucloud_api_docs](https://docs.ucloud.cn/api/uhost-api/import_custom_image) for detail.

-   `format` (string) - The format of the import image , Possible values are: `raw`, `vhd`, `vmdk`, or `qcow2`.

### Optional:

-   `ufile_key_name` (string) - The name of the object key in `ufile_bucket_name` where the RAW, VHD, VMDK, or qcow2 file will be copied to import.

> -   `skip_clean` (boolean) - Whether we should skip removing the RAW, VHD, VMDK, or qcow2 file uploaded to UFile after the import process has completed. Possible values are: `true` as leave it in the UFile bucket, `false` as clean it out.(Default: `false`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `skip_clean` (boolean) - Whether we should skip removing the RAW, VHD, VMDK, or qcow2 file uploaded to UFile after the import process has completed. Possible values are: `true` to leave it in the UFile bucket, `false` to remove it. (Default: `false`).
```
